Pig|2||Each turn, a player repeatedly rolls a dice until either a 1 is rolled or the player decides to 'hold'. - If the player rolls a 1, they score nothing and it becomes the next player's turn. - If the player rolls any other number, it is added to their turn total and the player's turn continues. - If a player chooses to 'hold', their turn total is added to their score, and it becomes the next player's turn. The first player to score 100 or more points wins. For example, the first player, Ann, begins a turn with a roll of 5. Ann could hold and score 5 points, but chooses to roll again. Ann rolls a 2, and could hold with a turn total of 7 points, but chooses to roll again. Ann rolls a 1, and must end her turn without scoring. The next player, Bob, rolls the sequence 4-5-3-5-5, after which he chooses to hold, and adds his turn total of 22 points to his score.
10000|2||Each player starts out 'off the table' with a score of zero. Players collect points during their turn, and either add those points to their cumulative score, or continue rolling with the risk of losing all points accumulated that turn if a scoring combination is not rolled. To begin a turn, if the player is 'off the table,' he rolls all six dice. If the roll scores any points, he may set aside each scoring die or group of dice he wants to claim points from, and either roll all remaining dice, hoping to score additional points, or take the points already accumulated this turn and pass play to the next player. Most versions of the game require a minimum score of 300 points in each turn to bank the score and pass, otherwise the player must continue rolling. If the player rolls multiple scoring combinations, only one is required to be taken with each roll, all other dice may be rerolled if desired. If all six dice score points in one or more rolls of a single turn, the player rolls all six dice again and continues to score additional combinations, known as a sweep. If at any time a roll scores no points, the player forfeits all points scored that turn (commonly called 'zilch' or 'crapping out'), and play is passed to the next player. If a player gets zilch three turns in a row he may suffer a 500 point penalty or lose all his points previously accumulated, depending on the several rules used. In order to get 'on the table,' a player must score at least 1000 points in a single turn (but not necessarily in one roll). Once a player is 'on the table,' he is on for the duration of the game. For a player who is 'on the table,' he may start a turn by either rolling all six dice as described above, or picking up the unused dice from the last player's turn. In this case, instead of starting this turn's scoring from zero, scoring starts from the score taken by the last player.
Dudo|2||Each player starts having five dice and a cup, which is used for shaking the dice and concealing your dice from the other players. Players roll die in order, to determine where and in what order they sit. Highest first, then next lowest and so on. In the event of a tie between 2 players, they simply re-roll until one gains a higher score. After deciding who starts the game (this can be done by making each player roll one die, for example), the players shake their dice in their cups, and then each player looks at his or her own dice, but keeps these dice concealed from the other players. Then, the first player says how many dice are showing - at a minimum - a certain number (for example, 'five threes', meaning there are at least 5 dice showing a three, which can be fact or fictional) and tells the next player (play always moves clockwise) to raise, call or spot on the announcement.
Yathzee|1||On each turn, a player gets up to three rolls of the dice. He or she can save any dice that are wanted to complete a combination and then re-roll the other dice. After the third roll, the player must find a place to put the score (though he or she can choose to end the turn and score after one or two rolls, if desired). If the resulting combination of dice will not fit in any unused scoring category, the player must place a 'zero' in one of the unused boxes. Each player's total score is calculated by summing all thirteen score boxes.